.\"	Copyright (c) 2012, Jan Schaumann <jschauma@netmeister.org>
.\"
.Dd August 22, 2012
.Dt JIRAMAIL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm jiramail
.Nd filter email and post the body to Jira as a comment
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhsv
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Atlassian's Jira ticketing system requires per-project email addresses to
be set up in order for users to be able to reply to ticket mail and get
their response added as a comment.
Instead of jumping through these hoops,
.Nm
allows you to simply pipe your email into it, and it will post the comment
using the Jira API instead.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width _c_file_
.It Fl d
don't do anything; useful for debugging in combination with
.Fl v
.It Fl c Ar file
read configuration from this file
.It Fl h
print a short usage message and exit
.It Fl s
swallow the input
.It Fl v
increase verbosity
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
reads an SMTP message from STDIN.
It will look for a ticket name and number (such as "PROJ-123") in the
"Subject: " header.
For each such string found, it will post the body of the message as a
comment into the given ticket.
.Pp
After processing the input and updating any tickets and unless the
.Fl s
flag is given,
.Nm
will print out the original email with one single modification:
the Jira email address to which the email was addressed is removed from
the To, Cc or Bcc header.
This allows you to use
.Nm
as a general email filter as well as to simultaneously copy individual
addresses and update a ticket.
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Nm
reads a simple configuration file containing key=value pairs of strings.
It will ignore all other content as well as anything including and
following a '#' character.
.Nm
will only use the following keys:
.Bl -tag -width password_
.It API
The URL path of the Jira API to update a ticket.
Defaults to "/rest/api/latest/issue/".
.It AUTH
The URL path of the Jira API to authenticate.
Defaults to "/rest/auth/latest/session".
.It FROM
The username to submit the comment as.
If not set, taken from the 'From: ' field of the mail.
.It HOST
The API hostname.
If this does not start with either "http://" or "https://", then the hostname
will be prefixed with "https://".
.It JIRA
The address from which ticket updates are coming, ie what we'd be
replying to.
.It JIRA_PASS
The password used to authenticate against Jira.
If not set,
.Nm
will look at the JIRA_PASS environment variable and if that is not set
either prompt the user.
It is strongly recommended against setting this in the configuration file,
but support is provided as it is one of the most convenient options.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was initially written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in August 2012.
